CashForMyGiftCards.com PDRF\
\
\
\
 Product Requirement and Functional Design (PRFD)
you need, I\'ll create it in multiple parts, ensuring all steps and code
snippets are integrated. I will start with the core structure,
integrating all relevant content from the provided documents, including
code snippets, detailed descriptions, and comprehensive workflow
explanations.

\*\*Let's begin the PRFD creation process with the first steps:\*\*

\-\--

\# \*\*Gift Card Instant Sale Plugin - Product Requirement and
Functional Design (PRFD)\*\*

\-\--

\## \*\*1. Introduction\*\*

\### \*\*1.1. Overview\*\*

The \*\*Gift Card Instant Sale Plugin\*\* allows users to sell Visa,
Mastercard, American Express, and Discover gift cards instantly,
leveraging \*\*Plaid\*\* for secure bank account linking and
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\* for payment processing. This PRFD outlines the
architecture, API integrations, security measures, and administrative
controls needed to implement a secure and scalable solution. The plugin
will enforce \*\*AES-256 encryption\*\*, handle \*\*token
management\*\*, integrate with \*\*Plaid\*\* and \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*
APIs, and perform \*\*error logging\*\* and \*\*secret validation
checks\*\*.

\-\--

\## \*\*2. User Roles and Capabilities\*\*

\### \*\*2.1. Custom User Roles\*\*

The plugin will define four custom roles that dictate user permissions
and flow through the system:

\#### \*\*Role 1: Plaid User\*\*

\- Assigned when a user begins the process of linking their bank account
with Plaid.

\- Permissions:

\- Access to link their bank account using the \*\*Plaid Link\*\* flow.

\- Limited access to only initiate the bank-linking process.

\- Transition: Once their bank account is successfully linked, they are
upgraded to a \*\*Transaction User\*\*.

\#### \*\*Role 2: Transaction User\*\*

\- Assigned after the user successfully links their bank account using
Plaid.

\- Permissions:

\- The user can now enter their gift card details and proceed with the
transaction using \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*.

\- Access to initiate and manage gift card sales transactions.

\- Transition: After a successful payment authorization via
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\*, the user becomes a \*\*Payout User\*\*.

\#### \*\*Role 3: Payout User\*\*

\- Assigned when the user completes a sale and Authorize.Net has
successfully processed the payment.

\- Permissions:

\- The user can request a payout using \*\*Plaid RTP\*\* or
\*\*FedNow\*\*.

\- Temporary role granted only until the payout is complete.

\- Transition: Once payout is successfully processed, the user returns
to their basic role or remains in \*\*Transaction User\*\* for future
transactions.

\#### \*\*Role 4: VIP User\*\*

\- This role is assigned manually by the admin.

\- \*\*VIP Users\*\* are \*\*exempt from transaction limits\*\* (daily,
weekly, and monthly caps).

\- Must submit \*\*identity verification\*\* (e.g., \*\*SSN\*\* or
\*\*government ID\*\*) for approval.

\- Permissions:

\- Unlimited transactions without limit caps.

\- Access to exclusive areas of the dashboard.

\### \*\*2.2. Hidden Usernames\*\*

Each user will be assigned a \*\*hidden username\*\* that is stored
securely in the database and will never be visible to the user. The
hidden username will be used in \*\*post-transaction secret validation
checks\*\*, adding an additional layer of security.

\*\*Code Example: Generating a Hidden Username\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_generate_hidden_username(\$user_id) {

\$hidden_username = \'user\_\' . wp_generate_password(12, false); //
Generate hidden username

update_user_meta(\$user_id, \'gciss_hidden_username\',
\$hidden_username); // Store hidden username

}

\`\`\`

The \*\*hidden username\*\* will be crucial in ensuring that even if the
user\'s primary data is exposed, this unique identifier remains secure
and is used for secret validation.

\-\--

\## \*\*3. Secure API Interactions\*\*

\### \*\*3.1. Plaid API Integration\*\*

The plugin will interact with \*\*Plaid API\*\* to securely handle bank
account linking, identity verification, and fund transfers.

\#### \*\*Public Token Creation\*\*

\- When a user initiates the bank linking process, the plugin will
create a \*\*Plaid public token\*\* to open the Plaid Link modal for
secure bank linking.

\- This token is created using the \*\*/link/token/create\*\* endpoint
and is valid only for the current session.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

https://plaid.com/docs/api/tokens/#link-token-create

\*\*Code Example: Public Token Creation\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_create_plaid_link_token(\$user_id) {

\$response =
wp_remote_post(\'https://sandbox.plaid.com/link/token/create\', \[

\'body\' =\> json_encode(\[

\'client_id\' =\> PLAID_CLIENT_ID,

\'secret\' =\> PLAID_SECRET,

\'user_id\' =\> \$user_id,

\'country_codes\' =\> \[\'US\'\],

\'language\' =\> \'en\',

\]),

\'headers\' =\> \[\'Content-Type\' =\> \'application/json\'\],

\]);

\$body = json_decode(wp_remote_retrieve_body(\$response), true);

return \$body\[\'link_token\'\]; // Return the link token for initiating
Plaid Link

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

I will continue writing the next steps, ensuring to include every
element from your prompt and the uploaded documents as we go through the
entire process step-by-step. Please let me know if you\'d like any
adjustments at this stage. I will proceed with the next sections after
your confirmation.\
Understood! I'll redo the previous sections and ensure \*\*all relevant
documentation URLs\*\* are explicitly included, as you requested. Here
is the corrected version with all required documentation references and
URLs:

\-\--

\## \*\*3.2. Authorize.Net API Integration\*\*

The plugin will integrate with \*\*Authorize.Net\*\* to handle payment
processing, ensuring secure credit card transactions, and will verify
incoming webhooks for payment success.

\#### \*\*Authorize.Net Accept.js Integration\*\*

The \*\*Authorize.Net Accept.js\*\* modal will securely handle credit
card payments, ensuring PCI compliance by tokenizing sensitive card
data.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net Accept.js
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/acceptjs.html)

\*\*Code Example: Accept.js Integration\*\*

\`\`\`html

\<script type=\"text/javascript\"
src=\"https://js.authorize.net/v1/Accept.js\"\>\</script\>

\<form id=\"paymentForm\"\>

\<input type=\"text\" name=\"amount\" value=\"50.00\"\>

\<button type=\"submit\"\>Submit Payment\</button\>

\</form\>

\<script\>

document.getElementById(\'paymentForm\').onsubmit = function(event) {

event.preventDefault();

Accept.dispatchData({

apiLoginID: \'YOUR_API_LOGIN_ID\',

clientKey: \'YOUR_CLIENT_KEY\',

cardNumber: \'4111111111111111\',

cardExpiration: \'1225\',

cardCode: \'123\',

}, gciss_handle_response);

}

function gciss_handle_response(response) {

if (response.messages.resultCode === \"Ok\") {

var token = response.opaqueData.dataValue;

// Send token to your server for further processing

} else {

console.log(response.messages.message\[0\].text);

}

}

\</script\>

\`\`\`

\-\--

\#### \*\*Transaction Reporting\*\*

The plugin will fetch transaction details via the \*\*Transaction
Reporting API\*\* after processing payments through
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\*. This will allow the system to log transaction
details and check for success or failure statuses.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net Transaction Reporting
API\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/reporting.html)

\*\*Code Example: Transaction Reporting\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_get_transaction_status(\$transaction_id) {

\$response =
wp_remote_post(\'https://apitest.authorize.net/xml/v1/request.api\', \[

\'body\' =\> \'\<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"utf-8\"?\>

\<getTransactionDetailsRequest
xmlns=\"AnetApi/xml/v1/schema/AnetApiSchema.xsd\"\>

\<merchantAuthentication\>

\<name\>\' . AUTH_NET_API_LOGIN_ID . \'\</name\>

\<transactionKey\>\' . AUTH_NET_TRANSACTION_KEY . \'\</transactionKey\>

\</merchantAuthentication\>

\<transId\>\' . \$transaction_id . \'\</transId\>

\</getTransactionDetailsRequest\>\',

\'headers\' =\> \[\'Content-Type\' =\> \'application/xml\'\],

\]);

return wp_remote_retrieve_body(\$response);

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\#### \*\*Authorize.Net Webhooks\*\*

Webhooks from \*\*Authorize.Net\*\* will provide real-time payment
status updates, confirming whether a transaction was authorized,
captured, or failed. The webhook will include a \*\*SHA-512
signature\*\* to ensure the authenticity of the payload.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net Webhooks
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/webhooks.html)

\*\*Code Example: Webhook Verification\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_verify_auth_net_webhook(\$payload, \$signature) {

\$calculated_signature = hash_hmac(\'sha512\', \$payload,
AUTH_NET_SIGNATURE_KEY);

return hash_equals(\$calculated_signature, \$signature); // Compare
signatures

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*4. Token Management and Encryption\*\*

Sensitive data, such as \*\*Plaid access tokens\*\* and
\*\*Authorize.Net transaction IDs\*\*, must be encrypted before storage.
The plugin will use \*\*AES-256 encryption\*\* for sensitive data
management, ensuring the security of all tokens.

\#### \*\*AES-256 Encryption for Sensitive Data\*\*

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[OpenSSL Encryption
Documentation\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.openssl-encrypt.php)

\*\*Code Example: Token Encryption\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_encrypt_token(\$token) {

\$encryption_key = get_option(\'gciss_encryption_key\'); // AES-256
encryption key

return openssl_encrypt(\$token, \'aes-256-cbc\', \$encryption_key, 0,
GCISS_IV);

}

function gciss_decrypt_token(\$encrypted_token) {

\$encryption_key = get_option(\'gciss_encryption_key\');

return openssl_decrypt(\$encrypted_token, \'aes-256-cbc\',
\$encryption_key, 0, GCISS_IV);

}

\`\`\`

\#### \*\*Token Lifecycle Management\*\*

\- \*\*Plaid access tokens\*\* expire after 30 minutes. The plugin must
manage token expiration and prompt users to re-authenticate when
necessary.

\- \*\*Authorize.Net transaction tokens\*\* will be stored securely for
a maximum of 30 days before they are purged from the database.

\-\--

\## \*\*5. Secret Validation Checks\*\*

After processing a payment through \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*, the plugin
will perform a \*\*secret validation check\*\* using the following data:

1\. \*\*First name\*\*, \*\*Last name\*\*, and \*\*Date of Birth\*\*:
Verified against the Plaid identity data.

2\. \*\*Hidden Username\*\*: A hidden username is assigned during the
registration process and stored securely. This will be checked as an
additional layer of security.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Identity Verification
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/identity/)

\*\*Code Example: Secret Validation Check\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_secret_check(\$user_id, \$plaid_token) {

\$user_meta = get_user_meta(\$user_id);

\$username = \$user_meta\[\'gciss_hidden_username\'\]\[0\];

\$dob = \$user_meta\[\'date_of_birth\'\]\[0\];

if (\$username && gciss_compare_plaid_token(\$plaid_token, \$username,
\$dob)) {

return true; // Secret check passed

}

return false; // Secret check failed

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*6. Webhook Handling\*\*

Webhooks play a key role in keeping the system updated with real-time
data about the user's transactions and account status.

\### \*\*6.1. Plaid Webhooks\*\*

The plugin will verify incoming webhooks from Plaid to ensure their
authenticity. \*\*HMAC signatures\*\* will be used to authenticate
webhook payloads. The webhook will notify the plugin of account linking
status, identity verification, and transaction status.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Webhooks Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/webhooks/)

\*\*Code Example: Plaid Webhook Verification\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_verify_plaid_webhook(\$payload, \$signature) {

\$calculated_signature = hash_hmac(\'sha256\', \$payload,
PLAID_WEBHOOK_SECRET);

return hash_equals(\$calculated_signature, \$signature); // Compare
signatures

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\### \*\*6.2. Authorize.Net Webhooks\*\*

Authorize.Net will send webhooks for each transaction, providing status
updates on authorizations, captures, or failures. These will be verified
using \*\*SHA-512 signatures\*\* for security.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net Webhooks
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/webhooks.html)

\-\--

\## \*\*7. Rate Limiting for API Calls\*\*

To prevent abuse and protect the system from excessive API calls, rate
limiting will be applied for both \*\*Plaid\*\* and
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\* API interactions.

\### \*\*7.1. Rate Limiting for Plaid API Calls\*\*

Rate limiting will apply for the following API interactions:

\- \*\*Public Token Creation\*\*: Limited to 5 requests per user per
hour.

\- \*\*Access Token Exchange\*\*: Limited to 10 requests per user per
day.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid API Rate Limiting\](https://plaid.com/docs/#rate-limits)

\*\*Code Example: Plaid Rate Limiting\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_check_plaid_rate_limit(\$user_id, \$api_call) {

\$current_time = current_time(\'timestamp\');

\$rate_limit = get_user_meta(\$user_id,
\"gciss_rate_limit\_\$api_call\", true);

if (\$rate_limit && (\$current_time - \$rate_limit\[\'last_call\'\]) \<
\$rate_limit\[\'interval\'\]) {

return false; // Rate limit exceeded

}

// Update rate limit

update_user_meta(\$user_id, \"gciss_rate_limit\_\$api_call\", \[

\'last_call\' =\> \$current_time,

\'count\' =\> \$rate_limit\[\'count\'\] + 1,

\'interval\' =\> gciss_get_rate_limit_interval(\$api_call),

\]);

return true; // Allow API call

}

\`\`\`

\### \*\*7.2. Rate Limiting for Authorize.Net API Calls\*\*

The plugin will also implement rate limiting for \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*
API interactions to prevent overloading the payment gateway. For
example:

\- \*\*Transaction Authorization and Capture\*\*: Limited to 3 requests
per minute.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net API Rate
Limits\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/rate-limits.html)

\-\--

\## \*\*8. Admin Settings and Configuration\*\*

The \*\*Admin Settings Page\*\* will provide administrative control over
the API credentials, error logs, and fee settings for the plugin.

\### \*\*8.1. API Credential Management\*\*

The admin interface will allow secure management of credentials for both
\*\*Plaid\*\* and \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*. API credentials will be
encrypted using \*\*AES-256\*\* before being stored.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid API Security Best Practices\](https://plaid.com/docs/security/)

\*\*Code Example: API Credential Management\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_save_api_credentials(\$plaid_client_id, \$plaid_secret,
\$auth_net_login_id, \$auth_net_transaction_key) {

update_option(\'gciss_plaid_client_id\',
gciss_encrypt_token(\$plaid_client_id));

update_option(\'gciss_plaid_secret\',
gciss_encrypt_token(\$plaid_secret));

update_option(\'gciss_auth_net_login_id\',
gciss_encrypt_token(\$auth_net_login_id));

update_option(\'gciss_auth_net_transaction_key\',
gciss_encrypt_token(\$auth_net_transaction_key));

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\### \*\*8.2. Error Logging and Pagination\*\*

Error logs will be accessible in the admin panel, displaying logs for
the last 90 days with pagination for easy navigation. Errors can be
filtered by \*\*type\*\* (e.g., Plaid, Authorize.Net, system errors),
and each log entry will provide full details, such as the \*\*error
description\*\*, \*\*code\*\*, and \*\*affected user\*\*.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Custom Table
Management\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/database/creating-tables-with-plugin-activation/)

\*\*SQL Schema for Error Logs\*\*:

\`\`\`sql

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS \`cfmgc_plugin_error_logs\` (

\`id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,

\`error_code\` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

\`error_description\` TEXT NOT NULL,

\`user_id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED DEFAULT NULL,

\`phase\` VARCHAR(50),

\`date_logged\` DATETIME NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,

PRIMARY KEY (\`id\`),

KEY \`user_id\` (\`user_id\`)

) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4;

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*9. Error Logging and Handling\*\*

All errors, whether from \*\*Plaid\*\*, \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*, or
system-related, must be logged for debugging and administrative review.
Logs will include the \*\*error code\*\*, \*\*error description\*\*,
\*\*associated user\*\*, and \*\*time of occurrence\*\*.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[PHP Logging Best
Practices\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.error-log.php)

\*\*Code Example: Error Logging\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_log_error(\$error_code, \$description, \$user_id = null,
\$phase = null) {

global \$wpdb;

\$wpdb-\>insert(

\"{\$wpdb-\>prefix}gciss_error_logs\",

\[

\'error_code\' =\> \$error_code,

\'description\' =\> \$description,

\'user_id\' =\> \$user_id,

\'phase\' =\> \$phase,

\'error_time\' =\> current_time(\'mysql\'),

\],

\[\'%s\', \'%s\', \'%d\', \'%s\', \'%s\'\]

);

}

\`\`\`

\### \*\*9.1. Error Log Pagination\*\*

Pagination will allow admins to browse error logs efficiently.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Pagination in
WordPress\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/pagination/)

\*\*Code Example: Pagination\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_display_error_log(\$page = 1) {

global \$wpdb;

\$errors_per_page = 10;

\$offset = (\$page - 1) \* \$errors_per_page;

\$query = \"

SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}gciss_error_logs

WHERE error_time \>= DATE_SUB(NOW(), INTERVAL 90 DAY)

LIMIT %d OFFSET %d

\";

\$errors = \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$wpdb-\>prepare(\$query,
\$errors_per_page, \$offset));

// Pagination logic here

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

With the corrected sections, I have now ensured all \*\*documentation
URLs\*\* are included for every process as requested. Let me know if
you\'d like to continue with further steps!\
\
Understood! Let\'s continue with the next sections of the \*\*Product
Requirement and Functional Design (PRFD)\*\*, making sure all
documentation URLs, relevant code, and content from your original prompt
are fully transferred.

\-\--

\## \*\*10. Secret Checks and User Validation\*\*

After the user completes a transaction through \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*,
the plugin will perform a \*\*secret validation check\*\* to ensure the
security of the user's data. The validation process will use the
following data:

1\. \*\*First name\*\*, \*\*Last name\*\*, and \*\*Date of Birth\*\*:
These will be verified against the Plaid identity data retrieved during
the bank linking process.

2\. \*\*Hidden Username\*\*: A unique hidden username assigned during
registration will be used to add an extra layer of security.

\### \*\*Secret Validation Process\*\*:

\- The plugin will fetch the \*\*Plaid token\*\* stored securely during
the linking process.

\- This token will be decrypted, and the user's \*\*hidden username\*\*
will be checked against stored metadata.

\- If the secret validation passes, the payout process can proceed.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Identity Verification
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/identity/)

\*\*Code Example: Secret Validation Check\*\*

\`\`\`php

function gciss_secret_check(\$user_id, \$plaid_token) {

\$user_meta = get_user_meta(\$user_id);

\$username = \$user_meta\[\'gciss_hidden_username\'\]\[0\];

\$dob = \$user_meta\[\'date_of_birth\'\]\[0\];

if (\$username && gciss_compare_plaid_token(\$plaid_token, \$username,
\$dob)) {

return true; // Secret check passed

}

return false; // Secret check failed

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*11. Payout Process via Plaid RTP or FedNow\*\*

Once the \*\*secret validation check\*\* has passed, the plugin will
initiate the \*\*payout process\*\* using \*\*Plaid RTP (Real-Time
Payments)\*\* or \*\*FedNow\*\*. The user's linked bank account,
authenticated during the earlier stages of the process, will be used to
disburse funds.

\### \*\*Payout Steps\*\*:

1\. \*\*Initiate Payout\*\*: Using the Plaid token, the plugin initiates
the RTP/FedNow payment to the user's bank account.

2\. \*\*Log the Payout\*\*: The plugin will log the payout details,
including:

\- \*\*Payout Amount\*\*

\- \*\*Payout Timestamp\*\*

\- \*\*Plaid Token\*\* used

\- \*\*Plaid RTP/FedNow Transaction ID\*\*

3\. \*\*Notify the User\*\*: Once the payout is confirmed, the user will
receive a \*\*notification\*\* (email/SMS) with details such as:

\- \*\*Payout Amount\*\*

\- \*\*Invoice Number\*\*

\- \*\*Payout Method\*\* (Plaid RTP or FedNow)

\- \*\*Transaction History\*\* updated in the dashboard.

\### \*\*Logging Payout Details\*\*:

Payout-related actions will be logged in the
\*\*cfmgc_plugin_payout_log\*\* table.

\*\*SQL Table Schema for Payout Log\*\*:

\`\`\`sql

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS \`cfmgc_plugin_payout_log\` (

\`id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,

\`user_id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED NOT NULL,

\`invoice_number\` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,

\`payout_amount\` DECIMAL(10, 2) NOT NULL,

\`payout_date\` DATETIME NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,

\`payout_method\` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

\`transaction_id\` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,

\`status\` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT \'pending\',

PRIMARY KEY (\`id\`),

KEY \`user_id\` (\`user_id\`)

) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4;

\`\`\`

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Transfers API
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/products/transfer/)

\-\--

\## \*\*12. User Dashboard and Transaction History\*\*

The \*\*user dashboard\*\* allows users to view their \*\*transaction
history\*\* and payout status. The data will be fetched from the
\*\*cfmgc_plugin_transactions\*\* and \*\*cfmgc_plugin_payout_log\*\*
tables.

\### \*\*12.1. Transaction History View\*\*

The user can view the following information for each transaction:

\- \*\*Invoice Number\*\*

\- \*\*Transaction Date\*\*

\- \*\*Gift Card Amount\*\*

\- \*\*Transaction Status\*\* (Pending, Completed, Failed)

\- \*\*Payout Status\*\* (Pending, Processed, Failed)

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Database Access with
\$wpdb\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/database/accessing-databases/)

\### \*\*Code Example: Transaction History Pagination\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_display_transaction_history(\$user_id, \$page = 1) {

global \$wpdb;

\$transactions_per_page = 10;

\$offset = (\$page - 1) \* \$transactions_per_page;

\$query = \$wpdb-\>prepare(\"

SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}cfmgc_plugin_transactions

WHERE user_id = %d

ORDER BY date_created DESC

LIMIT %d OFFSET %d

\", \$user_id, \$transactions_per_page, \$offset);

\$transactions = \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$query);

foreach (\$transactions as \$transaction) {

echo \"\<tr\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$transaction-\>invoice_number}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$transaction-\>date_created}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$transaction-\>amount}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$transaction-\>status}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$transaction-\>payout_status}\</td\>\";

echo \"\</tr\>\";

}

// Pagination controls here

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\### \*\*12.2. Transaction Filtering\*\*

Users will be able to filter their transaction history by:

\- \*\*Date Range\*\*: Start and end date to view transactions in a
specific time period.

\- \*\*Transaction Status\*\*: Filter by Pending, Completed, or Failed.

\- \*\*Payout Status\*\*: Filter by Processed or Pending.

\*\*Code Example: Transaction Filtering\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_filter_transaction_history(\$user_id, \$start_date,
\$end_date, \$status, \$payout_status) {

global \$wpdb;

\$query = \"SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}cfmgc_plugin_transactions
WHERE user_id = %d\";

if (\$start_date && \$end_date) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND date_created BETWEEN %s AND %s\",
\$start_date, \$end_date);

}

if (\$status) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND status = %s\", \$status);

}

if (\$payout_status) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND payout_status = %s\",
\$payout_status);

}

return \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$wpdb-\>prepare(\$query, \$user_id));

}

\`\`\`

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Query
Preparation\](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wpdb_prepare/)

\-\--

\## \*\*13. Error Handling and Notifications for Failed Payouts\*\*

If a payout fails at any stage, such as due to network issues or invalid
bank details, the plugin must handle the error accordingly.

\### \*\*Error Handling Steps\*\*:

1\. \*\*Log the Error\*\*: Record the error in the
\*\*cfmgc_plugin_error_logs\*\* table.

2\. \*\*Notify Admin\*\*: The admin should be notified immediately via
email, including a link to the error logs for further investigation.

3\. \*\*Retry Mechanism\*\*: Implement a retry mechanism to attempt the
payout again after a defined period (e.g., 15 minutes). After \*\*three
failed attempts\*\*, the system should halt retries and escalate the
issue to the admin.

4\. \*\*Notify the User\*\*: The user must be notified of the failed
payout, informing them that the admin is resolving the issue. Encourage
them to check back later.

\*\*SQL Table Schema for Error Logs\*\*:

\`\`\`sql

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS \`cfmgc_plugin_error_logs\` (

\`id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,

\`error_code\` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

\`error_description\` TEXT NOT NULL,

\`user_id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED DEFAULT NULL,

\`phase\` VARCHAR(50),

\`date_logged\` DATETIME NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,

PRIMARY KEY (\`id\`),

KEY \`user_id\` (\`user_id\`)

) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4;

\`\`\`

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Error
Handling\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/securing-output/)

\### \*\*Code Example: Retry Mechanism\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_retry_payout(\$payout_id, \$attempt = 1) {

if (\$attempt \> 3) {

// Notify admin and halt retries

cfmgc_notify_admin_of_failed_payout(\$payout_id);

return;

}

// Attempt the payout again after 15 minutes

wp_schedule_single_event(time() + 900, \'cfmgc_retry_payout\',
array(\$payout_id, \$attempt + 1));

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*14. Admin Management Enhancements\*\*

\### \*\*14.1. Viewing Transactions and Payouts\*\*

The \*\*Admin Dashboard\*\* will include tools to view all transactions
and payouts. Admins can:

\- View \*\*pending payouts\*\*.

\- Filter transactions by \*\*user\*\*, \*\*date\*\*, \*\*status\*\*, or
\*\*payout method\*\*.

\- Take actions on failed transactions or manually process payouts if
needed.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Creating Admin Pages in
WordPress\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/admin-menus/)

\-\--

\### \*\*14.2. Error Logs with Pagination\*\*

The admin will be able to view error logs with pagination, filtering the
last \*\*

90 days\*\* of errors. Error logs can be filtered by \*\*error type\*\*
(Plaid, Authorize.Net, or system errors). Clicking on a log entry will
show full details such as the \*\*error description\*\*, \*\*code\*\*,
\*\*affected user\*\*, and the phase of the user journey where the error
occurred.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Pagination
API\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/pagination/)

\### \*\*SQL Schema for Error Logs\*\*:

\`\`\`sql

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS \`cfmgc_plugin_error_logs\` (

\`id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,

\`error_code\` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

\`error_description\` TEXT NOT NULL,

\`user_id\` BIGINT(20) UNSIGNED DEFAULT NULL,

\`phase\` VARCHAR(50),

\`date_logged\` DATETIME NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,

PRIMARY KEY (\`id\`),

KEY \`user_id\` (\`user_id\`)

) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4;

\`\`\`

\-\--

\### \*\*Code Example: Error Log Pagination\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_display_error_log(\$page = 1) {

global \$wpdb;

\$errors_per_page = 10;

\$offset = (\$page - 1) \* \$errors_per_page;

\$query = \"

SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}cfmgc_plugin_error_logs

WHERE date_logged \>= DATE_SUB(NOW(), INTERVAL 90 DAY)

LIMIT %d OFFSET %d

\";

\$errors = \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$wpdb-\>prepare(\$query,
\$errors_per_page, \$offset));

foreach (\$errors as \$error) {

echo \"\<tr\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$error-\>error_code}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$error-\>error_description}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$error-\>user_id}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$error-\>phase}\</td\>\";

echo \"\<td\>{\$error-\>date_logged}\</td\>\";

echo \"\</tr\>\";

}

// Pagination controls here

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

This completes the next steps, ensuring \*\*all documentation URLs\*\*,
code snippets, and the necessary information from your original prompt
are fully included. Let me know if you\'d like to continue or need
adjustments!\
\
\
Absolutely! Let\'s continue with the remaining sections of the
\*\*Product Requirement and Functional Design (PRFD)\*\* document. I
will ensure that all documentation URLs, code snippets, and the relevant
information from your original prompt are included.

\-\--

\## \*\*15. Admin Management Enhancements (Continued)\*\*

\### \*\*15.1. View All Transactions and Payouts\*\*

The \*\*Admin Dashboard\*\* will allow admins to view all user
transactions and payouts. This includes the ability to:

\- View \*\*pending payouts\*\*.

\- Filter transactions by \*\*user\*\*, \*\*date\*\*, \*\*status\*\*, or
\*\*payout method\*\* (Plaid RTP or FedNow).

\- Manually process payouts if necessary.

\- Take actions on \*\*failed transactions\*\*, such as retrying payouts
or escalating the issue.

\### \*\*Code Example: Admin Transaction Viewer\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_admin_view_transactions(\$filter_args = array()) {

global \$wpdb;

\$default_args = array(

\'user_id\' =\> null,

\'start_date\' =\> null,

\'end_date\' =\> null,

\'status\' =\> null,

\'payout_method\' =\> null,

);

\$args = wp_parse_args(\$filter_args, \$default_args);

\$query = \"SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}cfmgc_plugin_transactions
WHERE 1=1\";

if (!is_null(\$args\[\'user_id\'\])) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND user_id = %d\",
\$args\[\'user_id\'\]);

}

if (!is_null(\$args\[\'start_date\'\]) &&
!is_null(\$args\[\'end_date\'\])) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND date_created BETWEEN %s AND %s\",
\$args\[\'start_date\'\], \$args\[\'end_date\'\]);

}

if (!is_null(\$args\[\'status\'\])) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND status = %s\", \$args\[\'status\'\]);

}

if (!is_null(\$args\[\'payout_method\'\])) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND payout_method = %s\",
\$args\[\'payout_method\'\]);

}

return \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$query);

}

\`\`\`

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Admin Page
Creation\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/admin-menus/)

\-\--

\### \*\*15.2. Error Log Filtering\*\*

The admin will also have the ability to filter error logs by:

\- \*\*Error type\*\*: Filter by \*\*Plaid\*\*, \*\*Authorize.Net\*\*,
or general \*\*system errors\*\*.

\- \*\*Error code\*\*: View specific errors by filtering on the error
code.

\### \*\*Code Example: Admin Error Log Filtering\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_filter_error_logs(\$error_type = null, \$start_date =
null, \$end_date = null) {

global \$wpdb;

\$query = \"SELECT \* FROM {\$wpdb-\>prefix}cfmgc_plugin_error_logs
WHERE 1=1\";

if (!is_null(\$error_type)) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND error_code = %s\", \$error_type);

}

if (!is_null(\$start_date) && !is_null(\$end_date)) {

\$query .= \$wpdb-\>prepare(\" AND date_logged BETWEEN %s AND %s\",
\$start_date, \$end_date);

}

return \$wpdb-\>get_results(\$query);

}

\`\`\`

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[WordPress Database Query
Functions\](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/)

\-\--

\## \*\*16. Completion of Customer Path (Handling After Payout)\*\*

Once the user completes the \*\*Authorize.Net\*\* transaction and
returns to claim their \*\*Plaid token\*\* for payout, the final steps
in the transaction flow need to be handled seamlessly.

\### \*\*16.1. Payout Confirmation\*\*

After returning from the \*\*Authorize.Net\*\* payment, the plugin will:

1\. \*\*Secret Validation\*\*: Validate the hidden username and other
identity data to ensure the correct user is claiming the payout.

\- Decrypt the \*\*Plaid token\*\* to retrieve user data,
cross-referencing it with the stored metadata in the database.

2\. \*\*Initiate Payout\*\*: If the validation passes, initiate the
payout using \*\*Plaid RTP\*\* or \*\*FedNow\*\* to the user's linked
bank account.

3\. \*\*Log the Payout\*\*: Log all payout details in the database,
including:

\- \*\*Payout Amount\*\*

\- \*\*Payout Timestamp\*\*

\- \*\*Plaid Token\*\*

\- \*\*Plaid RTP/FedNow Transaction ID\*\*

4\. \*\*Notify the User\*\*: Send the user an \*\*email\*\* or \*\*SMS
notification\*\* with details of the payout, including:

\- \*\*Payout Amount\*\*

\- \*\*Invoice Number\*\*

\- \*\*Payout Method\*\* (Plaid RTP or FedNow)

\- Redirect the user to the \*\*dashboard\*\*, where they can view their
\*\*transaction history\*\*.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Real-Time Payments (RTP)
API\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/products/transfer/)

\[Plaid Identity API\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/identity/)

\### \*\*Code Example: Payout Confirmation\*\*

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_process_payout(\$user_id, \$plaid_token) {

// Perform secret validation

if (!cfmgc_secret_check(\$user_id, \$plaid_token)) {

return new WP_Error(\'secret_check_failed\', \'Secret check failed.\');

}

// Initiate payout using Plaid RTP or FedNow

\$payout_response = cfmgc_initiate_payout(\$user_id);

if (is_wp_error(\$payout_response)) {

cfmgc_log_error(\'payout_error\', \'Failed to process payout.\',
\$user_id);

return \$payout_response;

}

// Log the payout in the database

cfmgc_log_payout(\$user_id, \$payout_response);

// Notify the user

cfmgc_notify_user_of_payout(\$user_id, \$payout_response);

return true;

}

\`\`\`

\-\--

\## \*\*17. Conclusion\*\*

This \*\*Product Requirement and Functional Design (PRFD)\*\* document
now thoroughly covers the entire user journey for the \*\*Gift Card
Instant Sale Plugin\*\*, from initial \*\*gift card sale\*\*, through
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\* and \*\*Plaid\*\* processing, to the \*\*final
payout and completion\*\*. The document includes:

\- Comprehensive \*\*API integrations\*\* with \*\*Plaid\*\* and
\*\*Authorize.Net\*\*.

\- Detailed \*\*user role management\*\*.

\- Full \*\*payout process logging\*\*, including error handling.

\- \*\*Admin controls\*\* for error management, transaction tracking,
and payout handling.

\- \*\*User dashboard enhancements\*\* for a seamless experience.

\- Necessary \*\*security measures\*\*, including \*\*AES-256
encryption\*\* and \*\*secret validation checks\*\*.

With this PRFD, your custom plugin development process is now fully
mapped out. Every piece of functionality, error handling, and security
measure has been detailed for \*\*Claude Dev\*\* to write the custom
plugin.

\### 5. \*\*AES-256 Encryption Documentation\*\*:

For \*\*AES-256 encryption\*\*, here are reliable sources that cover its
implementation and best practices:

1\. \*\*PHP\'s OpenSSL Library\*\*: This provides built-in functions for
AES-256 encryption and decryption. You can refer to the official PHP
documentation:

\- \[PHP OpenSSL Encryption
Documentation\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.openssl-encrypt.php)

2\. \*\*OpenSSL Project\*\*: This is the overarching library used in
various programming languages (including PHP). Their documentation will
provide detailed information on encryption algorithms like AES-256:

\- \[OpenSSL Documentation\](https://www.openssl.org/docs/)

3\. \*\*NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology)\*\*: NIST
defines standards for encryption, including AES-256. For a more in-depth
understanding, NIST's guidelines on encryption might be helpful:

\- \[NIST Special Publication on
AES\](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.197.pdf)

These resources should give you everything you need to implement and
understand the workings of \*\*AES-256 encryption\*\* in the context of
your plugin.

\### 7. \*\*WS Form Pro Already Handles Form Logic\*\*:

Since \*\*WS Form Pro\*\* handles all of the form validations, input
checks, and range limitations, you don't need to manually handle those
aspects in your plugin. We'll ensure the PRFD reflects this and
delegates those responsibilities to WS Form.

\### 9. \*\*GDPR Not Required for USA\*\*:

As you clarified, GDPR compliance isn't necessary since this is only for
users in the USA. Therefore, we don't need to address GDPR requirements
in the PRFD.

\-\--

\### Final Additions (to align with your confirmations 1-8):

Here's a refined list of additional steps based on your requests:

\### \*\*1. Role Transitions Based on Timing\*\*:

The system will handle \*\*temporary roles\*\* (like \"Plaid User\" or
\"Transaction User\") that expire after 30 minutes. After this timer
expires, the plugin will:

\- Redirect the user out of the transaction process.

\- Clear any relevant session data.

\*\*Code Example\*\*:

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_check_role_expiry(\$user_id) {

\$role_timer = get_user_meta(\$user_id, \'cfmgc_role_timer\', true);

\$current_time = current_time(\'timestamp\');

if (\$role_timer && (\$current_time \> \$role_timer)) {

// Clear session and reset role

wp_clear_auth_cookie();

wp_set_current_user(0);

wp_set_auth_cookie(\$user_id);

wp_safe_redirect(home_url());

exit;

}

}

\`\`\`

\### \*\*2. Session Management for Token Expiry\*\*:

Ensure that session management correctly handles \*\*Plaid token
expiration\*\* (after 30 minutes). Users should be warned when their
session is about to expire, and they should be prompted to
re-authenticate with Plaid if needed.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Plaid Token Expiry and
Re-Authentication\](https://plaid.com/docs/auth/)

\*\*Code Example\*\*:

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_check_token_expiry(\$user_id) {

\$token_expiry = get_user_meta(\$user_id, \'cfmgc_token_expiry\', true);

\$current_time = current_time(\'timestamp\');

if (\$token_expiry && (\$current_time \> \$token_expiry)) {

// Notify user of token expiry and redirect to re-authentication

wp_redirect(\'plaid-link-page-url\');

exit;

}

}

\`\`\`

\### \*\*4. Webhook Handling for Role Transitions\*\*:

When the \*\*Authorize.Net\*\* webhook confirms a successful
transaction, the user's role must change to \"Payout User,\" and the
\*\*Plaid token\*\* should be decrypted for validation before proceeding
with the payout.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[Authorize.Net
Webhooks\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/webhooks.html)

\*\*Code Example\*\*:

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_authorize_net_webhook_handler(\$payload, \$signature) {

// Verify webhook signature

if (!cfmgc_verify_auth_net_webhook(\$payload, \$signature)) {

return new WP_Error(\'invalid_signature\', \'Invalid webhook
signature.\');

}

// Decode the payload and process the transaction

\$transaction_data = json_decode(\$payload, true);

if (\$transaction_data\[\'status\'\] === \'authorized\') {

// Change the user\'s role to Payout User

\$user_id = \$transaction_data\[\'user_id\'\];

wp_update_user(array(\'ID\' =\> \$user_id, \'role\' =\>
\'payout_user\'));

// Decrypt Plaid token for final validation

\$plaid_token = cfmgc_decrypt_token(get_user_meta(\$user_id,
\'cfmgc_plaid_access_token\', true));

cfmgc_validate_payout(\$user_id, \$plaid_token);

}

}

\`\`\`

\### \*\*6. Enhanced Security Measures for Token Handling\*\*:

The PRFD must reflect that \*\*AES-256 encryption\*\* will be applied to
sensitive tokens, and those tokens will be purged securely after payouts
are complete. The process should involve decrypting tokens only when
absolutely necessary.

\*\*Documentation\*\*:

\[AES-256 Encryption with
OpenSSL\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.openssl-encrypt.php)

\### \*\*8. Custom Error Messages for Transaction Limits\*\*:

The plugin will check daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly \*\*transaction
limits\*\* for users. If the user exceeds these limits, the system must
return a custom error message that indicates when the user can next
perform a transaction and the maximum allowed amount.

\*\*Code Example\*\*:

\`\`\`php

function cfmgc_check_transaction_limits(\$user_id) {

\$daily_limit = 500; // Set your daily limit here

\$transactions_today = cfmgc_get_user_transactions(\$user_id,
\'daily\');

if (\$transactions_today \>= \$daily_limit) {

return new WP_Error(\'limit_exceeded\', \'You have reached your daily
limit. You can initiate your next transaction in 24 hours for up to
\$500.\');

}

}

\`\`\`

-### Documentation Links Summary:

1\. \[Plaid Identity API
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/identity/)

2\. \[Plaid Real-Time Payments (RTP) API
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/products/transfer/)

3\. \[Authorize.Net Accept.js
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/acceptjs.html)

4\. \[Authorize.Net Webhooks
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/webhooks.html)

5\. \[Authorize.Net Reporting API
Documentation\](https://developer.authorize.net/api/reference/features/reporting.html)

6\. \[Plaid Webhooks
Documentation\](https://plaid.com/docs/api/webhooks/)

7\. \[OpenSSL Encryption
Documentation\](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.openssl-encrypt.php)

8\. \[WordPress Database Query
Functions\](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wpdb/)

9\. \[WordPress Error Handling
Documentation\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/securing-output/)

10\. \[WordPress Pagination
Documentation\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/pagination/)

11\. \[Creating Admin Pages in
WordPress\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/admin-menus/)

12\. \[WordPress Database Access with
\$wpdb\](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/database/accessing-databases

\### Next Steps:

With these additions, I can now update the \*\*PRFD\*\* to reflect all
the necessary changes and additions. Let me know if you need any other
adjustments or if you\'re ready to finalize the \*\*PRFD\*\* with these
steps!

This concludes the detailed \*\*PRFD\*\* for the \*\*Gift Card Instant
Sale Plugin\*\*. Let me know if you\'d like further customizations or
need additional details.
